PETE LEPAGE: Async
and Await allows
you to write
promise-based code as
if it were synchronous
but without blocking
the main thread.
Pointer events
provide a unified way
of handling all input events.
Sites added to
the Homescreen are
granted automatic persistent
storage permission,
and there's plenty more.
I'm Pete LePage.
Here's what's new for
developers in Chrome 55.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Pointing at things on the
web used to be simple.
You had a mouse,
you moved it around,
and sometimes you'd push
buttons, and that was it.
But this doesn't work so well.
Touch events are good, but
to support touch and mouse,
you had to support
two event models.
Chrome now enables
unified input handling
by dispatching pointer events.
Pointer events unify the pointer
input model for the browser,
bringing touch,
pens, mice together
into a single set of events.
They're supported in IE
11, Edge, Chrome, Opera,
and partially
supported in Firefox.
Check out the Updates post
link below for more detail.
Asynchronous JavaScript can
be difficult to reason with.
Take this function with
all its lovely callbacks.
Rewriting it with promises helps
to avoid the nesting problem,
but promise-based
code can still be
difficult to read when
there are long chains
of asynchronous dependencies.
Chrome now supports the
Async and Await keywords,
allowing you to write
promise-based JavaScript that
can be as structured and as
readable as synchronous code.
Instead of this, our
asynchronous function
can be simplified to this.
Jake has a great post
on developers.googl
e.com/web/updates
with all the details.
The persistent storage
origin trial is now over.
You can now mark web
storage as persistent,
preventing Chrome from
automatically clearing
the storage of your site.
In addition, sites that have
high engagement have been added
to the Homescreen or have
push notifications enabled
are automatically granted
the persistence permission.
Check out Chris Wilson's
post for full details
on how you can request
the persistent storage
for your site.
CSS automatic hyphenation
is one of Chrome's most
requested layout
features and is now
supported on Android and Mac.
And finally, it's easier
to invoke native sharing
capabilities with the new
web share API, which is
available as an origin trial.
Paul Web Intents Kinlan
has all the details linked
in the description below.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 55
for developers.
Check the description
for more details.
If you want to stay
up to date with Chrome
and know what's coming,
click the Subscribe button,
and be sure to check out the
videos from the Chrome Dev
Summit for a deeper dive into
some of the awesome things
the Chrome team is working on.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 56 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]